docs(ai-ready): add backport skill (#9116)
camunda/camunda-docs: .claude/skills/backport/SKILL.md

---
name: backport
description: Use when applying a docs change to one or more older versioned releases. Covers finding equivalent files across versions, handling doc ID divergence, updating versioned sidebars, and PR conventions for backports.
user-invocable: true
argument-hint: "<description of the change to backport, or the PR/branch it came from>"
---

# /backport — backport a docs change to older versions

**Only proceed when the PR author has explicitly requested a backport.** Do not decide to backport on their behalf. If it is unclear which versions to target, ask before touching any files.

Applies an existing change (already made in `docs/` or a versioned folder) to one or more older versioned releases.

## 1. Identify what to backport

Before touching any file, confirm:

- **What changed**: list the files modified in the source change (content edits, new pages, sidebar additions, `.htaccess` redirects).
- **Why it applies to older versions**: bug fixes, clarifications, and corrections to already-shipped features are backport candidates. Content for unreleased features is not.

> - **Which versions**: check whether the feature existed in each target version. See `repo.instructions.md` §6 for the active version list and more versioning details. Do not backport to unmaintained versions; if a user explicitly requests one, explain that no `versioned_docs/version-<N>/` folder exists for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Which versions**: check whether the feature existed in each target version. See `versions.json` in the repo root for the active maintained version list. Do not backport to unmaintained versions; if a user explicitly requests one, explain that no `versioned_docs/version-<N>/` folder exists for it.
```

Is this what you meant? Or maybe I am misreading.

1. Check whether the source file path exists in `versioned_docs/version-<N>/`.
2. If not, search by page title or a distinctive heading or paragraph from the source file.
3. If the page does not exist in that version at all, skip that version for this file and note the gap.

## 3. Apply the change

- Copy the content edit faithfully. Do not adapt for version differences unless the content references a feature or API that did not exist in that version.
- If the source change added a **new page**: create the file in the target version folder and add its doc ID to `versioned_sidebars/version-<N>-sidebars.json` at the same position in the hierarchy. Also copy any co-located image or asset files (for example, an `img/` or `assets/` subdirectory alongside the page). Images referenced by the page must exist in each version folder where the page lives.
- If the source change added a **redirect** to `static/.htaccess`: the redirect already covers all versions (`.htaccess` is not versioned). No action needed.
- If the source change updated a **sidebar entry** (rename, reorder): apply the equivalent edit to `versioned_sidebars/version-<N>-sidebars.json`.

## 4. Validation

> Follow the build and format rules in `repo.instructions.md` §5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `npm run build` to validate the change, and `npm run format` to ensure Prettier formatting. See `repo.instructions.md` §5 for detailed guidance on build triggers and validation commands.
```

Author: I have revised this section and the next one to point to `repo.instructions` (source of truth), instead of replicating commands in the skill.
